hello everyone and welcome back to micro
one this week's class will be about nash
equilibria the most important solution
concept in game theory
now let's see what all the fuss is about
so last week we have looked at this
example where a pedestrian and a driver
want to cross an intersection at the
same time
the pure strategies that the players
have available are crossing the
intersection or waiting
we have used these payoff matrices to
represent the player's utilities in each
of the outcomes
and we see we have two good outcomes
where one of the player waits and the
other one crosses
then we have one particularly bad
outcome where both try to cross at the
same time and then there is an accident
now last week we have introduced two
solution concepts but neither is
satisfactory to analyze this problem
here
the first one that we've looked at was a
dominant strategy equilibrium but the
problem is that it doesn't exist in this
example because the players don't have
any dominant strategies
the other solution concept that we have
looked at was rationalizability
and here we have kind of the opposite
problem that every strategy profile is
rationalizable even the bad outcome
where both players try to cross the
intersection at the same time
now the reason why this is
rationalizable is because it's justified
by the conjectures that the other
players will wait
and we see here that
in this strategy profile with these
conjectures
we have a case where
the player's conjectures are completely
wrong
right we believe the other one will wait
with certainty when in fact they will
cross with certainty
now this means that in this solution
concept the players have what is known
as exposed regret after the fact they
both wish they would have deviated
now from conceptual point of view
there's something unsettling about
using a solution concept for these games
where the players conjectures can be
completely wrong right our players here
are perfectly rational they are able to
make
infinitely many logical deductions but
then we allow the players to be
completely wrong with their beliefs
and
to fix this um
we will look at nash equilibrium in a
nash equilibrium what we additionally
impose is that the player's conjectures
are correct so sort of the other extreme
and then we arrive at the following
definition here so in
a nash equilibrium
no player has an incentive to deviate
so a nash equilibrium is a strategy
profile so that for every possible
deviation that player i could consider
the deviation will not make them better
off so this means that
strategy sigma i is a best response
given
the correct conjecture that the other
players
play
sigma minus i
and so since this holds true for every
player it means that nobody has an
incentive to deviate
now if you break this
definition down there are two components
to this one the first one is that
compared to the best responses that we
had last week the expectation operator
here is missing because
the beliefs about the opponent's
strategies are correct right so this is
the first
assumption here in the nash equilibrium
players correctly predict the behavior
of the others
and then the second
condition is that players are rational
which means that they best respond to
their conjecture and this one is simply
satisfied by the assumption of
rationality the first requirement is a
rather strong requirement
and
yeah i think that we can now appreciate
how strong this requirement is because
we spend so much time to analyze
rationalizable strategies right
conjectures there could be so many
conjectures and they could be relatively
complicated
but here we assume the players are
correct in their conjectures with
probability one and this is really a
strong requirement a strong condition
now why do we study nash equilibria
if it relies on such a strong assumption
well like i mentioned um
it is sort of the the weakest solution
concept does that does not allow exposed
regret
right and we can only get that if the
player's beliefs are correct
and
from a more pragmatic perspective
if the player's predictions are correct
then we get
a very tractable theory we don't have to
think about conjectures at all because
the conjecture is correct
but it's important to keep in mind what
we have assumed
right so rationalizable strategies is
anything that we could expect to happen
um
of players with common knowledge of
rationality
we could
potentially see a crash right we could
see that two players cross the
intersection at the same time it's not
that this is not possible um but the
nash equilibrium just means that
it's a strategy profile where nobody
would want to deviate if they knew the
others
the other players strategies and so in
nash equilibrium this crash cannot
happen anymore um
but
but it's sort of the other extreme right
where where
even if we knew
our important strategies we would not
want to deviate
now whether or not this
is a
justifiable assumption depends really on
yeah how easy it is for players to
predict the opponent's strategy and only
then should we interpret the nash
equilibria as a prediction
but at the end of this video i want to
talk more about precisely when we can
consider nash equilibria to be a
prediction
for now let's first see how we find nash
equilibria in these finite games
so first we look at pure strategy nash
equilibrium
and
those are relatively simple to find
for each
strategy profile of player ice opponent
we find the best responses by player i
so this means here if we find the best
response for player 1 we first look at
let's say
a fixed
strategy by player 2 so let's say cross
and we see that the best response
is to wait
and if we fix
player 2 strategy to be waiting then
player 1's best respond is to cross and
so those are our
fewer strategy best responses now by
symmetry
the driver has the same best responses
and then we have
a two mutual best responses which are
the pure strategy nash equilibrium
and we notice that
both players correctly predict each
other's behavior and they best respond
to it
now to find mixed nash equilibria there
will be two ways how we can do it
the first one relates back to what we've
seen last week which is the indifference
principle
so
last week already i think it was lemma
1.9
we've seen that
if a player is willing
to mix
as a best response then they must be
indifferent between all the pure
strategies in the support
if they were not they would be better
off
um
not playing the worst strategy among
those that they are playing with
positive probability
and so this is simply a special case
from lemma 1.9 where now the conjectures
are correct
now it's important to keep in mind what
the indifference principle says it says
that
a player is indifferent between all pure
strategies in the support so only
between those that they choose with
positive probability
and so
the indifference principle is only
helpful to find equilibria if we know
the support
now there's one special case
where we do know the support which is if
there's two
actions by the players and then we can
find completely mixed equilibria using
the indifference principle and a
completely mixed equilibrium is one in
which positive weight is assigned to
every pure action
so let's see this in
the example of the intersection here so
what we want to find is
we're going to use the indifference
principle
of let's say player one
if
the opponent player two
acts according to the nash equilibrium
and we don't know the nash equilibrium
yet so we parametrize it with an
arbitrary parameter y
it could be anything between zero and
one
and now the indifference principle tells
us that
the pedestrian should be indifferent
between crossing and walking if the
driver crosses with probability y
so let's compute the expected utilities
so for for weighting it's always zero
and for crossing it's minus four
in the event that the driver crosses
which happens with probability y so we
get minus four y from the first year
from this outcome
and then we get plus one if the driver
is waiting which happens with
probability one minus y and so in total
we get an expected utility of one minus
five y
now when are we indifferent precisely if
y is one fifth
because the game is symmetric
we see that the driver is
only indifferent if also but the
pedestrian crosses with probability
one-fifth and
for the driver to be willing to mix with
one-fifth it is necessary that the
pedestrian also mixes with one-fifth
probability and so we have
a unique
completely mixed strategy nash
equilibrium
now
let me
provide a warning about using the
indifference principle
and
we will see this in an example or an
extension of the game where now we add
one additional action to both players
where they can wave hi
to the other person in traffic
and
if the wave
is not reciprocated then
you feel a little bit worse that you
wave them but they ignored you so you
get minus epsilon and if they wave back
at you we get plus epsilon
now
we can see easily that the same nash
equilibrium that we have found before
where both players cross with one fifth
probability this is still a nash
equilibrium
because
if the opponent chooses only
between c and w
then responding
h cannot be better than than waiting
right because
we get minus epsilon in both cases that
happen in the nash equilibrium
so because
waving is not in the support of our
opponent it cannot be a best response to
choose to wave back
let's see what happens if we analyze
this game using the indifference
principle
so again
we start by parametrizing
the strategy of the opponent which we
don't know at the moment
but we know we can write it as
choosing to cross with probability y
choosing the weight with probability z
and then the remaining probability has
to be assigned to waiting and
waving now
the expected utilities
for each pure strategy by the pedestrian
well if you wait this to zero because we
always get zero for waiting
then if we cross well
so if
the driver crosses
with probability y we get minus four y
but if the driver doesn't cross then we
get one and this happens with
probability one minus y and if we cross
it doesn't matter whether the opponent
is waving or not and so we get exactly
the same expected utility as before
and then the expected utility for waving
high
is
well minus epsilon if they don't
reciprocate and plus epsilon if they do
well knowing difference between the two
before is the same as previously so it's
still with one fifth we should cross
and the difference between waving high
and weighting
um
means that y plus c has to be equal to
one half so that both
the positive and the negative epsilon
are weighted with the same probabilities
and this means that z has be three over
ten
and we get a completely mixed nash
equilibrium in which we cross the
intersection with twenty percent
likelihood we wait with thirty percent
likelihood and we wave to the other
person with fifty percent likelihood
and we see that just by using this
approach we did not get
the other mixed equilibrium that we know
exists
and this is because
we have assumed that players are
indifferent between all three actions
but
yeah so this as a warning that the
indifference principle
only works if we know the support of the
player's actions
good now if the indifference principle
only works if we know the support is
there a way how we can find nash
equilibria without first knowing the
support and the answer is yes
and
it works through best response
correspondences
the idea is that
instead of just using indifference we
first find the set of all possible best
responses by player i to an arbitrary
strategy profile of player eyes
opponents
so this is what this means here right is
that
the best response attains this utility
and so any strategy that attains
the maximal utility has to be a best
response
and
we do that by
parameterizing the strategy profile
of every player
and then we maximize the expected
utility of player i with respect to i's
choice variables which are the
probabilities with which i chooses each
pure action
and then once you have found
the best response correspondence for
each player then
we
check the best response correspondences
against each other to see
when we have a mutual best response and
because a mutual best response is
precisely nash equilibrium this
guarantees us to find all nash
equilibria
okay
this slide here makes it sound like it
could be rather complicated to find
best response correspondences for any
for any possible strategy profile of the
opponents but let's see how it looks
like in the example of crossing the
intersection
so we need to parametrize the entire
strategy profile so we have probability
x the pedestrian crosses and the driver
crosses with probability y
and then you expect the utility of
let's say the pedestrian is
-4 in the outcome here which happens if
the pedestrian crosses and the driver
crosses with probability x times y and
then the pedestrian gets one if they're
the only one to cross and the driver
waits which happens with probability one
minus y
and then by symmetry
the expected utility of player two is
similar
now how do we maximize this utility well
we take the derivative with respect to x
and
we see that the derivative does not
depend on x at all anymore and this is
not a coincidence because
this is the expected utility and x was
the probability with which we choose a
certain action so the expected utility
will always be linear in x and after we
take the derivative we will always get a
function that does not depend on x at
all so we can see that the best response
will be well
okay if y
is equal to one fifth then
the derivative is zero so this means we
are indifferent and we already knew that
from the difference principle
if y is smaller than one-fifth this
quantity will be positive
so this means that with each
that additional probability of crossing
increases our expected utility
and so we get the best response at x
equals to one so we cross with certainty
and then if y is smaller
no if y is larger than one-fifth
then the derivative is negative and
hence the expected utility will be
maximized at x equal to zero where we
wait with probability one
now we can summarize this discussion by
writing down the best response
correspondences like this and i like to
be rather explicit with these
correspondences because it will help us
verify
when they are consistent with each other
now let's try to verify consistency and
it works by just going through those
cases one by one and we can start with
either player let's say we start with
the best responses of player one
if
we're in the first case if y is smaller
than one-fifth then we see that the best
response here is to cross with
probability one
but now we go to the other side and we
see okay if we cross with probability
one then we are in this case here which
means player two best responds with
waiting for sure
and then we go back to where we started
and we see okay y equals zero is
consistent with what we started
so this means we have found a nash
equilibrium
next case
suppose y is equal to one fifth
then
we can't really say anything about what
player one would do but
we can say something about what player
two has to do
or we can say something about what
player 1 does from player 2's best
response because player 2 has to be
willing to mix right this means we
choose both actions with positive
probability and this is the best
response only if player one
if the pedestrian crosses with also
probability one-fifth
and then
for the same reason
y has to be equal to one-fifth and we
see again it's consistent with what we
started with
last case
if
the driver crosses with probability more
than 20 percent
then the pedestrian will wait
and this will imply that the driver will
cross with royalty one
and
we get the last nash equilibrium
and so this approach gave us all three
nash equilibrium
and we didn't have to worry that we were
missing any
now we can also
represent this
mutual best correspondence we can
represent this graphically
so in this graph here we have along the
x axis
player one's probability of crossing and
on the y-axis the driver's probability
of crossing
so we see here that if x
if y is smaller than one-fifth then x is
equal to one so that's here then if y is
equal to one-fifth anything is a best
response and if y is larger than one
fifth then x equals zero is the best
response
and similarly we get the same for player
two
and then what's the mutual best response
correspondence it's the intersection
points of well the best response
correspondences
now graph this graphic approach really
works well only if
both players have two actions available
but the analytical approach always works
[Music]
now
in this example we have three nash
equilibria and they attain the payoffs
one zero
zero one
and zero zero
and
in general the problem with mixed
actions in this example is that
if both players mix then they have to
attach positive weight to
an accident which leads to a very low
expected utility
now
the two pure subdivision equilibria are
pretty good in the sense that
they maximize the sum of the utilities
the only drawback is that they
um give preference to one of the players
and if we look at this graph here we
might want to
be able to
select
those with some probability is there a
way how we can achieve an outcome that
is symmetric is fair to both players but
is also efficient
and the answer is yes we can use what is
known as a public correlation device so
we can say
we can install a traffic light and we
can say well
you should choose this nash equilibrium
if the traffic light is red for the cars
and the other nash equilibrium if the
traffic light is green for the cars and
this is a nash equilibrium because
the signal that we see
is only a recommendation it's not
binding if you see a red light
at the intersection then
you don't have to wait it's just in your
best interest to wait because the cars
will be driving through
and so this means that even if we see
the signal
we can still both maximize our own
actions right i i don't care about the
driver i don't even know the driver in
fact um i guess unless i waved high
previously but
um
yeah i don't care i just maximized my
own utility but nevertheless it's in my
interest to follow the recommendation of
the traffic light
and let's say if the traffic light is
red and green equally likely then we
will get this nice symmetric payoff in
which both players get one half
expecting utility
[Music]
good to summarize
this video i want to discuss again about
what is a nash equilibrium and what is a
nash equilibrium not
so
i guess closest to the definition a nash
equilibrium is a set of outcomes that is
consistent with mutually rational
behavior in which nobody's beliefs are
exposed and validated so this means
nobody is completely wrong within their
beliefs and players don't have exposed
regret
and those are all outcomes that are
consistent
with these two
conditions that the players are rational
and that they
they their conjectures are correct
and so in a sense the set of all nash
equilibria could be viewed as the
solution to the game
now could we use an individual nash
equilibrium as a prediction
and well
since i mentioned
that in this class we want to pay
particular attention about what the
underlying assumptions are we go back to
the underlying assumptions about
nash equilibrium now the fact that
players are rational i think we are very
comfortable with that assumption
but the other one is whether the
conjecture
whether the player is correctly
conjecturing each other's behavior
whether that is reasonable
and only in that case should we use an
individual nash equilibrium as a
prediction
now we have seen one example
last week where this is justifiable and
it's if
a unique strategy profile survives
rationalizability right in the corner
example we have seen that
even without assuming anything about the
other players conjectures we can
iteratively deduce their strategy and in
that case clearly it's justified that
the player's predictions are correct
then
today we've seen some other cases where
correctly predicting each other's
behavior is reasonable
let's say the first one is if there's
explicit communication
if you and i talk with each other before
we play a game then
we expect which nash equilibrium you
will play
so we have seen
on the traffic light right is
essentially explicit communication that
tells who or which nash equilibrium
should be played
and
once the players know they have no
incentive to deviate
now more broadly the law informs people
how they are expected to behave and you
don't have to follow the law
you can go to prison if you want but
it's not in your best interest to do so
a contract
is written precisely in a way such that
following the contract is a nash
equilibrium
and this requires that the punishments
are sufficiently strong for either side
if they breach it so that nobody has an
incentive to deviate
[Music]
another way how players predictions
could be correct is through some kind of
evolutionary process
let's say if players
if you play poker
with the same opponent over and over
again then eventually you will learn
with what probability they are bluffing
and things like that
so if you've played them often enough
then you can adapt your strategy
and they will adapt their strategy to
yours and then eventually play will
reach a nash equilibrium where nobody
can improve their strategy
anymore another example would be i
suppose rock paper scissors um if you
played enough against one opponent then
you kind of can predict how they play
i suppose also in biology here we have
this
evolutionary nash equilibria where
where
certain species adapt to to survive in a
in a niche that other species don't use
and things like that
and then in general if there is a focal
point for some reason so if there is
some common expectation in society that
everybody behaves a certain way
such as an example
social norms are upheld because we are
all following them let's say
if you and i meet each other and we say
hi
then
this is kind of a nash equilibrium
because we're both happier that we both
said hi than if we both don't say hi but
this is just because of the social norm
if the social norm was that we don't say
hi
then we would be happy to not say hi
um
yeah another example could be
if you
are on the bike and you face somebody
else on the bike
and then
there are two nash equilibria where one
swerves left the other right
no we're both swerve right or both
swerve left
and because in taiwan people drive on
the right side of the road it could be a
focal point to expect that people will
swerve right
[Music]
good
that's it for the first video for nash
equilibria in finite games and here's a
few questions for you to check how
much you've understood
then the literature um well nash
equilibrium is any gate is in any game
theory book and it was first derived by
nash in 1950 in a one page paper
good
that's it for this video and i'll see
you in the next one